Population on 1 January (population au 1er janvier de l'année)
Code: tps00001
Persons
Short Description: The inhabitants of a given area on 1 January of the year in question (or, in some cases, on 31 December of the previous year). The population is based on data from the most recent census adjusted by the components of population change produced since the last census, or based on population registers. 


Real GDP growth rate - volume (taux de croissance du PIB)
Code: tec00115
Percentage change on previous year
Short Description: Gross domestic product (GDP) is a measure of the economic activity, defined as the value of all goods and services produced less the value of any goods or services used in their creation. The calculation of the annual growth rate of GDP volume is intended to allow comparisons of the dynamics of economic development both over time and between economies of different sizes. For measuring the growth rate of GDP in terms of volumes, the GDP at current prices are valued in the prices of the previous year and the thus computed volume changes are imposed on the level of a reference year; this is called a chain-linked series. Accordingly, price movements will not inflate the growth rate. 


Harmonised unemployment rate by sex (taux de chômage pour les femmes et les hommes)
Code: teilm020
Short Description: The inhabitants of a given area on 1 January of the year in question (or, in some cases, on 31 December of the previous year). The population is based on data from the most recent census adjusted by the components of population change produced since the last census, or based on population registers. 
Short Description: The unemployment rate represents unemployed persons as a percentage of the labour force based on International Labour Office (ILO) definition. The labour force is the total number of people employed and unemployed. Unemployed persons comprise persons aged 15 to 74 who:
- are without work during the reference week;
- are available to start work within the next two weeks;
- and have been actively seeking work in the past four weeks or had already found a job to start within the next three months.
Data are presented in seasonally adjusted form. 


HICP - inflation rate (taux d'inflation)
Code: tec00118
Annual average rate of change (%)
Short Description: Harmonised Indices of Consumer Prices (HICPs) are designed for international comparisons of consumer price inflation. HICP is used for example by the European Central Bank for monitoring of inflation in the Economic and Monetary Union and for the assessment of inflation convergence as required under Article 121 of the Treaty of Amsterdam. For the U.S. and Japan national consumer price indices are used in the table. 


Long term government bond yields (taux d'intérêts à long terme des obligations)
Code: teimf050
%
Short Description: Long term government bond yields are calculated as monthly averages (non seasonally adjusted data). They refer to central government bond yields on the secondary market, gross of tax, with a residual maturity of around 10 years. The bond or the bonds of the basket have to be replaced regularly to avoid any maturity drift. This definition is used in the convergence criteria of the Economic and Monetary Union for long-term interest rates, as required under Article 121 of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Protocol on the convergence criteria. Data are presented in raw form. Source: European Central Bank (ECB) 


Inequality of income distribution (inégalité des revenus)
Code: tsdsc260
Income quintile share ratio
Short Description: The ratio of total income received by the 20 % of the population with the highest income (top quintile) to that received by
the 20 % of the population with the lowest income (lowest quintile). Income must be understood as equivalised disposable 


International trade, by reporting country, total product (balance commerciale)
Code: tet00002
Million EUR
Short Description: Imports are expressed in value terms and measured cif (cost, insurance, freight). Exports are expressed in value terms and measured fob (free on board). Balance = export - import 


Research and development expenditure, by sectors of performance (dépenses R&D par rapport au PIB)
Code: tsc00001
% of GDP
Short Description: Research and experimental development (R&D) comprise creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of man, culture and society, and the use of this stock of knowledge to devise new applications. R&D expenditures include all expenditures for R&D performed within the business enterprise sector (BERD) on the national territory during a given period, regardless of the source of funds. R&D expenditure in BERD are shown as a percentage of GDP (R&D intensity). 


Total researchers (FTE), by sectors of performance (nombre total de chercheurs)
Code: tsc00004
FTE: full-time equivalent
Short Description: Researchers are professionals engaged in the conception or creation of new knowledge, products, processes, methods and systems, and in the management of the projects concerned. FTE (Full-time equivalent) corresponds to one year's work by one person (for example, a person who devotes 40 % of his time to R&D is counted as 0.4 FTE. 
